# SC1015-MiniProject-A134-Team4-LiangTan
The dataset we are using is the completed flat prices from 2017 to 2023 in Singapore. With the ever-increasing issue of housing prices, it is important to understand what affects the price of a flat in the first place. One of our teammates has been looking at flat prices with his girlfriend and has been comparing the BTO prices to resale flat prices, so this project is motivated by his personal desire to find out more. Resale flats compared to newly built flats have lots of variety in area and locality, with many different factors and variables that would determine the resale price of the flat. 
Our team seeks to find out the aspects of the flat that have the greatest effect on the sale price of the flat and see how well these variables can be used to predict the resale price of the flat. 
Our hypothesis is that the resale price of the flat will be largely affected by the floor area of the flat, its lease length and the story range of the flat. 
First, we imported the dataset and looked at the columns that are available to us. The main variables that the dataset had that were of interest were the floor area per square meter, the lease commence date or remaining lease as well as the story range as that was what we thought would affect the resale price the most. We used these variables as they were concrete numbers that we could use for comparisons. Although in a more complex evaluation of the dataset we could have used the flat type, flat model, and town of the flat to do categorical analysis on the resale price, when we plotted bar graphs the only one with clear differences are the flat models ranging from 1 room to multi-generation, which would correlate with the floor area per square meter, so we will not be looking at the flat model. 
With the 3 variables we have in mind, we need to clean the data so that it can be used. Firstly, we sorted story range into an integer ranging from 1 to 17 for each range of available floors and plotting a histplot to look at the distribution of the story range. Next, we processed the lease commence date and turned it into an integer for age of the flat, as well as plotted it in a histplot to view the distribution. Finally, we plotted the resale price to examine the distribution as we would be using it as a response variable. Looking at how it is skewed, we decided to log the price to get a better normalization on the data for regression, which is shown in the histplot. The floor area per square meter did not need to be cleaned as it was already in float. 
To check if log of resale price would be better, we did regression with the resale price and log of resale price against the floor area per square meter. Looking at the plots as well as the expected variances between the two, the log of resale price against floor area yielded a better fit of 0.4418 compared to 0.3763, so we felt that it was the best fit. 
Next, we did regression on age of the flat as well as the story range of the flat. Both turned out with weak fits, age having a 0.1404 explained variance and story range having a 0.1129 explained variance.
The correlation values of floor area, age and story range were 0.61, -0.37 and 0.34 respectively. This matched the explained variance values as the floor area had the most explained variance and therefore had the best fit, whereas age and story range possessed some correlation to resale price. 
We thought that if we used the 3 variables in a multi variate regression we may be able to obtain a better fit as all 3 variables have some correlation with resale price. From the regression done we could see that the fit of the variables was good and that the explained variance shot up to 0.5945 for the train dataset and 0.5992 for the test dataset which showed strong correlation between the 3 variables and resale price. 
To test this regression model, we did a prediction test on the dataset, taking towns and using the 3 variables attached to each resale flat to predict its resale flat price. Using Ang Mio Kio and Yishun, we came up with an average of 15% prediction error, with 10% standard deviation. This model was sufficient to predict the resale prices within 5 to 25% error and we felt that it was a good gauge for resale prices. We then wanted to see how the error held up if used with a greater area differential, where we used the regression model to predict the resale prices all over Singapore compared to a singular town. We found that the error increased with the standard deviation. To find out how much difference the location made with regards to the flats’ resale price, we did another multivariate regression on a singular location of Clementi. The regression returned a better explained variance of 0.8710 for the train case and 0.8672 for the test case, showing a much better fit if constrained to a singular town for analysis. Running the prediction on the flats in Clementi gave us a much lower mean error of 11% and standard deviation of 8% showing that the location of the flats did affect the prices of the flats.
In the future analysis we will classify the locations of the flats by their average resale prices and give each location an arbitrary value so that it can be regressed and fit into the regression model. This will give us more predictive power and help us better understand how resale price is affected. 
What we discovered by the end of this analysis is that there exists a correlation between resale price and floor area, age, and story range. Although the correlation to some of the variables are not strong, when we combined the 3 variables it could accurately predict the resale price of the flat within 5-25% certainty. If constraint to the location; removing the location from affecting the resale price of the flat, the regression model becomes even more accurate, predicting the prices between 2-18%. 
This investigation managed to answer our question and allowed us to gain more insight into what affects the resale prices of flats. The regression model would certainly help us find and optimize our flat purchasing as it can provide us with a baseline price that the flat would be worth which can be used to compare with prices within the different towns in Singapore. Although not very accurate, it is very usable since it only requires 3 easy to obtain variables.
Interesting new things that may help allow for better prediction of price may be the longitude and latitude values that were provided, which could be transformed into distance from city hotspots, transportation nodes or areas of interest and investigating the changes in resale price with this distance. 
